# Expressions, Combinations and Procedures

Scheme language has certain components that build it up and allows
developers to use in solving problems.

One of them is called an expression. An expression is a
primitive value that Scheme understands. For example,
an expression can be a rational number like `23`. If
you type that in the interpreter, it will evaluate it
as a rational integer and output it as `23`. The same
thing happens for the decimal point numbers.

Another example of the expression is an operation. The
operation is indicated by its symbol (i.e. either a
name or an actual symbol) and it is used for performing
an activity on expressions like numbers. For example,
`+` operation will add numbers whereas `-` will subract
them.

In order to use the operation on the expressions, he
has to build an expression called _combination_.
Combination is an expression that consists of
sub-expressions. Any number of them in fact. But there
are rules as to what each of them mean. The first
sub-expression is an `operator` and it represents and
operation described earlier. The rest of them are
called `operands` that can represent expressions like
numbers or even combinations that consist of a
different set of the operator and its operands).
An example of the combination is this:
```scheme
(+ 23 1)
Output: 24
```
The `+` is the operator and its operands are `23` and
`1`.

There are also compound combinations that are called
_named procedures_. These procedures are just like
combinations, but the only difference is that they have
a name, a set of formal parameters and a definition
body that performs computations whether using the
parameters or not.


