# Lexical Scope and Formal Parameters in terms of bound and free variables

## Free and Bound variables

When a procedure has a set of formal parameters that
allows its users to provide arguments for its specific
task, the parameters become _bound_ variables. This
means that the variables, as long as its referenced
correctly despite renaming them, have a scope
**within** procedure's body and not outside of it. This
allows to isolate the variables from outside one unless
you capture the name that already exists outside of
procedure. To give an example, look at this:
```scheme
(define (square x) (* x x))

(define (random-sum x y)
        (+ (square x) y))
```
As you can see, `random-sum` and `sqaure` procedures
share a common parameter of `x`, but the **meaning** of
it is different for each procedure. This is because
mechanism of bounding a variable to a procedure allows
the parameters to have their own value without
interferring upper callers' (i.e. procedures in higher
call stacks) parameters that have the same name.
Otherwise, the procedures would have to take care of
which version of `x` parameter to use!

Free variables, on the other hand, are types of variables
that exist independently outside of a procedure's definition
if it references them in the first place. These free
variables will have a value, whether a primitive data or a
named compound procedure, being assigned to them outside of
any procedure defintions. These variables act as an
_abstract procedures_ because procedures that use them don't
know their exact implementation but they have an expectation
of its behaviour that is part of an evaluation within them.
In other words, they act as **black boxes** for the
procedures as well as dependency of them due to their
specific functional purposes.


---
# Lexical Scope

Lexical scope is when a set of code blocks can access a
specific variable due to its scope making it available
in a environment space where the aforementioned code
blocks have been defined.

For example, look at below code:

```scheme
(define (sum x y z)
        (define (add x y)
                (+ x y))
        (add (add x y) z))
```

The code above just adds arguments of `x`, `y` and `z`
together in an sub-epxression that evalutes different
problems (i.e. Evaluate a sub-expression of adding of
`x` and `y` and then evaluate the whole `(add
"whatever's been evaluated" z)`). Let's make the
expression slighlty better:

```scheme
(define (sum x y z)
        (define (add x y)
                (+ x y))
        (define (add-obvious-args)
                (+ x y))
        (add (add) z))
```
What happened is that `add-obvious-args` procedures
access variables of `x` and `y` within its defintion
space without having defining formal parameters for
them. This works because `x` and `y` variables are
bound variables and it means these variables, precisely
their variable __names__, a _bound_ within a scope of
`sum` procedure, which is a high level one that
contains other sub-procedures such as `add` and
`add-obvious-args`.
